# Emscripten

The core Emscripten SDK (emsdk) driver is a Python script. You can get it for the first time with

#### Get the emsdk repo
git clone https://github.com/juj/emsdk.git

#### Enter that directory
cd emsdk

Run the following emsdk commands to get the latest tools from GitHub and set them as active:

#### Fetch the latest registry of available tools.
./emsdk update

#### Download and install the latest SDK tools.
./emsdk install latest

#### Make the "latest" SDK "active" for the current user. (writes ~/.emscripten file)
./emsdk activate latest

#### Activate PATH and other environment variables in the current terminal
source ./emsdk_env.sh

NOTE: On Windows, run emsdk instead of ./emsdk, and emsdk_env.bat instead of source ./emsdk_env.sh

If you change the location of the SDK (e.g. take it to another computer on an USB), re-run the ./emsdk activate latest and source ./emsdk_env.sh commands.

Navigate with the command prompt to the SDK root directory for your target SDK.
for example <emsdk root directory>/emscripten/1.20.0/.
  
 emsdk/emscripten/1.38.9
 
 #### Verifying Emscripten
 $ ./emcc -v
 
 #### Running Emscripten  
 You can now compile your first C/C++ file to JavaScript.
 Specify the C/C++ file after emcc 
 
 $ ./emcc tests/hello_world.c
 
 You should see two files generated by that command: a.out.js and a.out.wasm.
 
 a.out.wasm -> WebAssembly file containing the compiled code
 a.out.js   -> JavaScript file containing the runtime support to load and execute it
 
 ###### NOTE: WebAssembly (abbreviated Wasm) is a binary instruction format for a stack-based virtual machine. Wasm is designed as a  portable target for compilation of high-level languages like C/C++/Rust, enabling deployment on the web for client and server applications.
 
 You can run them using node.js:
 $ node a.out.js
 
 This prints “hello, world!” to the console, as expected.
 
 ## hello-world example
 Create hello.c file
 
 Compile it with:
 emcc hello.c -o hello.html -s WASM=1
 
 We use the option -o to generate the html and -s WASM to generate wasm binary file.
 
 ##### execute this on the hello.html path
 python -c 'import SimpleHTTPServer; SimpleHTTPServer.test()'
 
 Now you can go to your browser port 8000.

 #
 #






